Now if the table of beers was large and
had millions of entries,
the table would possibly need
to be split over many machines.
Another way of saying that is that
the table will be partitioned
across a number of machines.
Since a query simply
performs a selection and
projection here,
it can be evaluated in parallel.
Remember that name is
the primary key of the table.
One standard way of partitioning the data
is called a range partitioning
by the primary key.
This simply means that the rows
of the table are put in groups
depending on the alphabetical
order of the name value.
So beers with names starting with E and
B here are placed in Machine 1.
Those starting with C and
D are in Machine 2.
And if there are too many rows for
entries where the name starts with H,
maybe H is split into Machines 5 and 6.
This is shown in the sketch here.
Next, we will show how queries
are performed over partition tables.
But before we do that, you should know
that all database management companies,
like IBM, Chair Data, Microsoft, and
others, have a solution like this for
large volumes of data,
where data partitioning is used.
Newer systems, like Spark and SQL,
are naturally distributed, and
therefore, offer data partitioning.
So, we show the same partition
tables as we saw before.
Now we'll ask two queries.
The first query asks for
all tuples as records from the beers table
where the name of the beer starts with Am.
And the second query is
exactly what we asked before.
The first query in
the SQL looks like this.
We said SELECT* FROM Beers to mean
all attributes from table beers.
The WHERE clause shows the syntax for
a partial match query.
In this query,
there are two new syntax elements.
The first is a predicate called like.
When we use like,
we're telling the query engine
that we only have partial information
about the string we want to match.
This partly specified string
is called a string pattern.
That means, there is this part
of the string we know and
a part that we do not know.
In this case, we know that our design
string starts with Am, so we'd write Am,
and then we put % to refer to the part
of the string that we do not know.
Putting them together, we get Am%.
If we wanted to find, say,
Am somewhere in the middle of the string,
we would write the pattern as %Am%.
The second query is not new.
We saw it in the last slide.
However, as we'll see next, evaluating
the second query will be a little more
tricky in a partition database than
that we usually see for big data.
Let's talk about the first query
in this data partition setting.
The question to ask is, do we need to
touch all partitions to answer the query?
Of course not, we know that the name is
a primary key for the table of beers.
We also know that the system did arrange
partitioning on the name attribute.
This means that the evaluation
process should only access Machine 1
because no other machine will have
records for names starting with A.
Now this is exactly what we, as humans,
do when we look up an entry in
a multivolume encyclopedia.
We look for the starting words, then
figure out which specific volume would
have that entry,
then pick up just that volume.
Thus, so long as the system
knows the partitioning strategy,
it can make its job much more efficient.
When a system processes
thousands of queries per second,
this kind of efficiency actually matters.
Now raised partitioning is
only one of many partitioning
schemes used in a database system, okay.
Let's try to answer the second query
in the same partition setting.
Now the query condition is on
the second attribute, manf.
Now in one sense, it's a simpler query.
There is no light pattern here, and
we know exactly the string that we are
looking for, namely the string Heineken.
However, this time,
we really cannot get away
by using the partitioning information
because the partitioning activity is
different from the attribute on which
the query condition is applied.
So this query will need
to go to all partitions.
Technically speaking,
the query needs to be broadcast
from the primary machine to all machines,
as shown here.
Next, this broadcast query
will be independently, and
in parallel,
execute the query on the local machine.
Then, these results need to be
brought back into the primary machine.
And then,
they need to be unioned together.
And only then, the results can be
formed and returned to the client.
Now, this might seem
like a lot of extra work.
However, remember, the shaded part of
the query is executed in parallel,
which is the essence of
dealing with large data.
Now, at this point, you might be thinking,
wait a minute, what if I had 100 machines,
and the desired data
is only in 20 of them?
Should we needlessly go through all 100
machines, find nothing in 80 of them, and
return 0 results from those machines?
Then why do the extra work?
Can it not be avoided?
Well, to do this, it would need
one more piece in the solution,
it's called an index structure.
Very simply,
an index can be thought of as a reverse
table, where given the value in a column,
you would get back the records where the
value appears as shown in the figure here.
Using an index speeds up query
processing significantly.
With indexes, we can solve this
problem in many different ways.
The top table shows the case where
each machine has its own index for
the manf column.
This is called a local index because
the index is in every machine
that holds the data for
that table on that machine.
In this case,
looking up Heineken in the index,
we would know which records
would have the data.
Since the index is local, the main query
will indeed go to all machines, but
the lookup will be really instant, and the
empty results would return very quickly.
In the second case,
we adopted a different solution.
Here, there is an index on the main
machine, all on a separate index server.
Now when we place a data
record in a machine,
this index keeps an account of the machine
that contains the record with that value.
Look at the second table to the right.
Given the value of Heineken,
we know that it is only in three machines,
and therefore,
we can avoid going to the other machines.
Clearly, we can always use
both indexing schemes.
This will use more space,
but queries will be faster.
Now this gives you some of the choices
you may need to make with big data,
whether you use a parallel DBMS or
a distributed data solution.